======================================================================
$Id$
======================================================================

This is the BioSQL distribution. BioSQL is a generic unifying schema
for storing sequences from different sources, for instance Genbank or
Swissprot.

BioSQL is meant to be a common data storage layer supported by all the
different Bio* projects, Bioperl, Biojava, Biopython, and Bioruby.
Entries stored through an application written in, say, Bioperl could
be retrieved by another written in Biojava.

======================================================================
INSTALLATION NOTES

1. Generally, the support for each RDBMS is maintained individually,
as there are too many differences between the RDBMSs for automatic
generation from a single DDL.

2. For the MySQL version to instantiate and run properly you need to
have a very fairly recent version of MySQL installed. Minimum
requirement is MySQL 3.23.50, because only from that version on are
nullable columns which participate in a UK handled in a bug-free 
manner (according to the MySQL documentation).

3. The Oracle version is maintained separately, in sql/biosql-ora. 
Check for a README and INSTALL document in that directory.

======================================================================
POST v1.0 TODO
======================================================================

The following changes are scheduled for the next release of
BioSQL. These changes incur incompatibilities with the 1.0 version and
will require a database migration.

  - Rename comment table to anncomment and rename term_synonym.synonym
  to term_synonym.name in mysql and pg schemas. This will make the
  names consistent with the Oracle schema, avoiding Oracle reserved
  words.


There are currently three different RDBMSs supported: MySQL,
PostgreSQL, and Oracle.

The MySQL schema DDL is in biosqldb-mysql.sql, and the PostgreSQL
schema is in biosqldb-pg.sql. In order to instantiate the schema, feed
the respective file to you SQL shell (mysql for MySQL, and psql for
PostgreSQL).

The Oracle schema is in the directory biosql-ora; check out the
INSTALL documentation in that directory for how to instantiate it.

You may also want to read other documentation that comes with this
distribution, like the INSTALL and README files in the distribution's
root directory.
